Brian was asking me, is this the right scripture this morning?
I'm like, oh yeah, we're gonna be in the Lord's Prayer till Palm Sunday.
So, you know, I hope you are ready to just stay in Matthew chapter six for a good bit longer.
We're looking, we're looking section by section at the Lord's Prayer.
So we are gonna continue looking today at Matthew chapter six, verses nine through 13.
I invite you to, if you have your Bibles turned there with me, if not, you can, you can,
Follow along on the screen.
I'm going to invite you to stand as your able and body or in spirit for the reading of our gospel less than this morning.
Pray it in this way.
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors and bring us not into the time of trial
but rescue us from the evil one.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
You may be seated.
Hey, just a real quick, a little bit of church trivia here.
So one of the things that we believe in the church universal is we do not believe the gospel is more, the gospel lessons are more inspired than the rest of scripture.
Like we don't believe Matthew is any more inspired than Leviticus, for instance.
Well, why then do we stand in church sometimes for the reading of the gospel lesson, but not for a reading from Galatians, for instance?
It does not mean the gospel is more holy or more inspired.
No, that's not why we stand for the reading of the gospel lesson.
The reason why we stand for the gospel lesson is Colossians gives us a little insight into this.
Colossians 1 15 says, he is the visible image of the invisible God.
So in other words, if you want to understand the Father, you have to look to the Son.
So how do we look to the sun?
We'll read Scripture.
Specifically, we read the Gospels.
So the Gospels are not more inspired.
They're not Bible plus.
None of that.
But the Gospels do give a special insight into the heart of the Father because they give a special insight into Jesus Christ.
That's why we will stand for the Ring of the Gospels.
Not because they're better than the rest of Scripture, but they do give a special insight.
So that's why many churches will stand for the Ring of the Gospel.
Great to be with you this morning.
I want to thank Kelly for all of goodness gracious.
Kelly, thank you for setting up communion for getting everything ready.
I'm so thankful for you and for Ginger and for all the leaders in this service.
It's always a joy.
I feel like though I'm a hurricane.
I come in and I read and I'll leave.
So thank you all for putting up with me when we're in here.
So today we're looking at, we're going to be looking at the stat, the part of the creed that says,
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Okay.
So I went to, I went to Bogucheta as I'm sure you will know her.
If you don't know, I went to Bogucheta, small old school in South Mississippi.
And we, I graduated in 94, which was roughly a thousand years ago to our youth.
And I took, I don't know if any, okay, this is how country Bogucheta was.
I took Hunter's ad.
in school.
My friends came to school with their gun racks in their truck with the guns in the truck because they went hunting before school and then went hunting after school.
So their guns were in their gun racks in their trucks at school.
In Hunter's Ed, we shot Skeet on the football field.
I'm not making this up.
That's what we did at Boga Chittom.
And so I took, so shop class was part of the curriculum at Boga Chittom.
So I took shop.
I came to the state fair.
Y'all tell me all that nobody.
I want you to think about this for a minute.
I came to the state fair when I was in eighth grade to show cattle.
Can you think of anyone in the world less likely to want to show cattle than Andy Stoddard, Diva Esquire?
No.
But in the ninth grade, they did this little thing and they wanted to switch it up.
And so this is great.
So by the way, oh, let's get the remember, this is the 90s.
It's a different age.
The boys took shop.
The girls took home neck is what we did in Bugguccia.
So well, the ninth grade, they wanted to do a curve ball.
So for half this year, the boys took shop and the girls' home ec and they swapped it.
So we got to take home ec and the girls got to go to shop.
So I'm worse at home ec than I am at shop, by the way.
I'm good at neither of them.
And but the good thing about home ec was there was a refrigerator with ice cream inside it.
Now you'd be thinking to yourself, Andy, does that ice cream belong to you?
And the answer is no, it does not.
And then your second question will be Andy, are you going to eat the ice cream that does not belong to you?
And the answer is, of course I am.
So I went there one day and they had these nutty buddies, these little ice cream nutty buddy bars.
I thought, oh, I love those.
Those are so good.
And I said, I'm going to eat one of these.
My friend said, you shouldn't do that.
Don't eat a nutty buddy ice cream bar.
That is not yours.
And I said, but I want to.
and they're delicious.
And they all said in mass, don't do that.
So I did it.
Some said they're eating my nutty bar, eating my nutty bar, eating someone else's nutty bar.
And the teacher walks in and you guess how this is.
It was the teachers.
I'd eaten her lunch and her ice cream specifically.
And she, and I got a paddle in that day because we also beat people in Boca Chino.
But
All of my friends and my I said, don't do it.
Don't do it.
If you're going to do this, it's going to end bad for you.
And that did not stop me because I wanted to.
So I ate it and I of course paid the literal price for it.
Today's scripture passage is nothing like eating a nutty buddy bar that doesn't belong to you.
But I want to give you some caution today.
Be careful praying this prayer.
Be careful praying that kingdom come.
Thou will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
I've heard someone say, whatever you do, never pray for patience because there's only one way to get patience and that's to go through something.
Be very careful praying for the Holy Spirit to convict you of your sins because when the Holy Spirit can make sure of sins, that's not always a pleasant or an easy thing.
Today's prayers very much like that.
Thy kingdom come.
That will be done.
That can be a dangerous prayer to pray.
if we're really going to live into it.
So today's passage has two parts to it.
That kingdom come that will be done.
Let's talk about what each part of this prayer means and then what it means to us.
So that kingdom come.
So there are three titles that people refer to Jesus as in the Gospels.
And each has a distinct meaning.
And you can tell what someone wants.
by what they call Jesus.
The main title of Jesus is Son of God.
Son of God.
In that respect, it's worship, it's religious.
Son of God is God's son.
That's the main title for Jesus is Son of God.
Sometimes Jesus is called Son of David.
If you'll notice, when Jesus is called Son of David, the person who calls him Son of David always wants something.
They want to be healed, they want him to do something.
Son of David is flattery because Son of David implies, well, you were a king like David was a king.
So, Son of God, religious, Son of David, flattery, but also dying to King David.
Son of Man.
Son of Man is a title that only Jesus uses to refer to himself.
And when Jesus uses the title, Son of Man, it's always in a sense, big seminary word here, of eschatology.
Eschatology is things about referencing the second coming.
the final judgment.
So we'll always say, when the Son of Man comes in the clouds, so on and so forth.
That Son of Man is actually a reference to Daniel.
In Daniel, the prophet says, there are one coming judgment who is like a son of man.
So when Jesus refers to himself as the son of man, that's always, always a reference to his eternal lordship, his eternal kingship, and the fact that one day, one day in God's time,
Jesus will come in judgment in real quick.
This has got nothing to do with the sermon, but any time any time we have things far off the Middle East, you're going to have a million folks on Facebook saying, ah, he's coming.
He's coming.
Yeah, he's coming.
Sure.
Every day we're here.
There's another day close to the Lord's return.
But Jesus says in scripture, no man knows the hour in our date.
So
that wars and rumors of wars or read history there's always been wars and rumors of wars i think sometimes always always think about what dr bryson used to say in college he'd always say jesus is a lot a lot harder to uh... jesus is harder to um... he's not hard to understand he's hard to follow it's a lot more fun and interesting in sometimes anxiety producing to um...
to focus on when it's Lord coming back.
Oh, it's gonna be the day, it's gonna be tomorrow.
Oh no, oh no, oh no.
We make, we make Jesus like a horror movie villain.
Oh, Jesus pops out from the corner, gotcha.
You know, like we make Jesus a horror, we make him Jason, you know, we make him Freddy Krueger, we make him a horror movie villain who's coming to get us.
You should be afraid, you should be scared.
But when you read scriptures, you know what you see when you talk about Jesus coming back?
It's redemption, it's salvation.
Jesus is not out to get you.
Jesus is out to save you.
So that again, Jesus is not out to get you.
He's out to save you.
So I do not think anything.
I don't think anything currently happening in the Middle East is anything brings us any closer to the Lord's return than the fact that one more day we're living brings us closer to the Lord's return.
Do not go anxious over those things.
Because frankly, those things are in God's hands, not in ours.
So when we see here, there's no of, he says, thy kingdom come.
That is, that is very much like son of man language.
That is the eschatod, eschatological stuff.
This is Jesus, thy kingdom come when we pray for thy kingdom to come.
We're praying for, this is praying for that kingdom of God to come.
for that kingdom of God to come and to make all things right.
That kingdom of God to restore things.
We're praying for God.
When we prayed that kingdom come, we're praying for that perfect kingdom to come here upon the earth.
We're praying for that type of thing and that.
And that sounds great.
That sounds awesome.
Isn't that what we want?
Is that God's kingdom come?
God's kingdom to come?
Can you imagine, friends, there's gonna come a time.
There's gonna come a time.
when no one will ever get a cancer diagnosis again.
There's gonna come a time when there'll be no more addiction.
There's gonna come a time when there'll be no more broken families.
There's gonna come a time when there'll be no more racism or no more hate.
There's gonna come a time when all these things will be done away with and we will forever be with the Lord.
But here's the thing.
My mom used to always say, we got to put feet to our prayers.
So if I'm going to pray, this is why this is a dangerous prayer.
If I'm going to pray for His kingdom to come, I cannot control the ETA of God's kingdom coming.
The Lord returned that God's kingdom coming is very much like that Amazon package that you ordered on December 22nd.
It's going to get here when it gets here.
And you refreshing the tracking is not going to help it get here faster.
God's kingdom will come in God's time.
But if I'm praying for it, then what am I doing to live into it?
What am I doing to live into it?
So we read Matthew 25.
This is a great passage about that kingdomly, that's one of the great passages of judgment in Scripture.
In Matthew 25, we see the Lord divide and folk of sheep and goats, sheep on one side goat to the other.
We see a scene of judgment playing out in Matthew 25.
And what determines in Matthew 25, the team you get picked to, sheep or goats, what is it?
Well, it seems to be how we have treated the poor, at least among us.
Have we visited the sick?
Have we cared for the dying?
Have we been the hands and feet of Jesus?
And so it doesn't seem to be about having exactly the right beliefs.
Matthew 25, the dividing point is where did you have the right view of baptism?
The right view of Scripture?
It isn't, did you go to the right church?
It isn't, did you do the right thing?
But no, it's this.
Is did you live out the gospel?
Did you live out the gospel?
And the way we live out the gospel is by knowing that Jesus Christ is king and Jesus Christ is Lord and that this is his kingdom and this is his world friends.
Those of us who are Christian, those of us who have taken on the name of Christ, those of us who have submitted our life to the Lords of Jesus Christ, we have to understand submitting ourselves to the Lordship of Jesus Christ is not an intellectual exercise.
We have equated our faith as intellectual agreement, not heart transformation.
Our faith is not intellectual agreement.
Our faith is a transformed heart, a transformed life.
It is, when we get to heaven, he's not gonna ask us, well, did you believe in the right thing?
Even by the way, let me be clear, believe the right thing is a good thing.
I try every Sunday to teach you the right stuff.
But what matters most of all is that we have a heart that's been transformed by the grace and mercy of Jesus Christ.
I said before, I don't want to make you a good person.
I just want you to love Jesus.
Because if you love Jesus, I kind of think the rest will fall in line.
So when we pray thy kingdom, come, we're praying, Lord, let me live out your gospel.
Let me live out your gospel.
So often we live our lives.
We often live our lives thinking, maybe one day, maybe one day, perhaps, one day, possibly, maybe, perhaps, if we're lucky, perhaps, maybe.
Jesus may one day, possibly, perhaps, be king.
That one day, maybe, far from the future, Jesus may be king.
Instead of living up with the gospel tells us that Jesus is king now.
Jesus' kingship is not a future thing.
Jesus' kingship is a now thing.
And so when we pray that kingdom come, we aren't just praying for some magical day when this kingdom flows down from heaven.
But we're praying that today, that kingdom come in me.
That kingdom come for me now.
God, may your kingdom come in my work.
May your kingdom come in my family.
Lord, may your kingdom even come in dollar general today.
Wherever I find myself, may your kingdom come, thy kingdom come.
Today, Lord, not one day, may you be the Lord and King of my life, of our life, of our church, of our community, of our family.
Today, thy kingdom come.
That's dangerous because if he is king, that means I'm not king.
And I kind of like being king.
You know, I like doing what I want.
I like letting my ego be in charge.
You know, I like being the one calling the shots.
I like what Tim Keller says, we often prefer Jesus to be an advisor than a Lord.
He's not an advisor, he gives counsel and wisdom.
The Lord gives, the Lord gives commands.
Today is Jesus your king or is he your advisor?
Who's really in charge?
So this is a dangerous prayer.
If we're going to start praying, your kingdom come.
Your kingdom come.
Is he Lord of our life?
Is he Lord of our resources?
Is he Lord of our of our of our of everything?
That kingdom come, thy will be done.
And here's the thing about that will be done that will be done on earth as it's in heaven.
In heaven, God's will is perfectly obey.
The angels perfectly obey God's will.
In heaven, God is perfectly obeyed.
In heaven, God is the perfect king and lord because in heaven there is no sin.
In heaven, the veil of sin is not there.
So here, God's will is never perfectly done because it's not to be perfectly done by imperfect beings.
I don't perfectly do God's will.
You don't perfectly do God's will.
It's because we're human.
To say you do not perfectly obey God is not to make you scum.
It's the name reality.
You are an imperfect being.
Welcome to the club.
We're all imperfect.
And so, so often, so often we have this veil of false perfection that we live under.
This veil of false perfection.
Well, I've got to be perfect because isn't that what being a Christian is, right?
Because as Christians, we've got to be better than other people, right?
So I've got to be perfect.
I can't do things that are wrong.
I can't fail.
I've got to have this plastic sheen of perfection.
I've got to have this Instagram perfect faith.
I tell people, you know, like I've for so often, my kid draw the house now.
But man, when we had kids, I felt like such a terrible Christian.
Oh, I felt like a terrible Christian.
Because when we had kids, when they were young, you hear people talk about, man, we and our family get together every night and we pray together.
And like this perfect Christian devotional life of families around God to word.
And our devotional life usually involves this.
Hey, put the cat down.
Hey, stop it.
Stop licking your brother.
What are you doing?
Like put the cat down.
We are going to pray.
Stop talking, we're gonna seek our loving God.
Sit down, shut up, we're gonna pray.
And you don't feel very holy when you're doing those things, you know?
Like, you don't feel very holy.
So, the false Christian sheen makes liars of us all.
It makes liars of us all because we have to pretend
that we're better than we really are.
So we're praying for God's will to be done on earth as it is in heaven.
While knowing that we're never gonna get it right.
We're not gonna get it right, friends.
And that's okay.
That's okay.
God doesn't love us because we're perfect.
He loves us because he's perfect.
God doesn't love us because we do His will perfectly all the time.
He loves us because He does His will perfectly all the time.
It's not, friends, it's never about our perfection.
It's always about His perfection.
That will be done upon earth as it is in heaven.
Do we really want to live like that?
I mean, we do, but it requires submission and change and things like that.
But it also gives hope.
It also gives hope because we know, friends, we know there's a better way, don't we?
We know there's a path better than our selfishness.
We know there's a path better than ours and our ego.
We know there's a path better than our desire.
Yeah, you ever, you ever gotten exactly what you want?
Like I'm talking exactly what you want.
How long did that high last?
They or so, you know, that Christmas present you really, really, really, really, really wanted five years ago.
That one you really wanted five years ago was last time you thought about it.
You know, think, think, think, see as Lewis says that we are far too easily pleased that we are like children playing in a making mud pies because we cannot imagine what a vacation at the beach is like.
We are far too easily pleased.
We are pleased with the stuff of this world which is so fleeting.
when there's something so much better and deeper that awaits for us.
There's something so much more holy, more life-giving, more perfect than awaits for us.
Do not be so easily pleased.
Do not settle for the things of this world when God's perfect heavenly kingdom awaits.
That will be done.
Come Lord, may or not the quickly make all things right.
That kingdom come that will be done.
Own earth as it is in heaven.
So friends, let's not live with the hopes that Jesus will be king one day.
Let's live in the reality that he is king now.
Let's live with the confidence.
that he is king now.
Yes, this is a dangerous prayer to pray.
This is a dangerous prayer to pray.
That's a holy prayer.
It's a life-giving prayer.
It's a prayer that grants us our souls something so much deeper than just the stuff that we're satisfied with.
But it's a prayer that binds us to Jesus.
That is will may be done on earth as it is in heaven.
May his kingdom come and say, Matthew is today.
May his kingdom come around your dinner table today.
May his kingdom come tomorrow at work.
May his kingdom come even if you're stuck in traffic on the interstate tomorrow.
May his kingdom come into every aspect of our life.
And may we find the depth of love that comes from knowing his kingdom will come.
and his will will be done.
May we live in the depth of that hope and of that peace.
In the name of the Father and Son, Holy Spirit, let's pray.